what's up guys Jase $0.02 here and you
might have noticed we did not go to CES
this year that's because I ended up
taking a vacation in fact the whole
company took a vacation and we feel
rejuvenated and recharged and doesn't
mean I'm gonna be any better at saying
words well regardless we're gonna talk
about some of the stuff we learned at
CES specifically in this video we're
gonna talk about intel's
much-anticipated much awaited discrete
graphics card and whether or not it's
gonna bring any competition whatsoever
to AMD and NVIDIA and whether or not as
a game where you should really even care
[Music]
featuring the Intel 9750 h6 core
processor up to 64 gigabytes of memory
and multiple GPU options mag 15 laptop
from you electronics is one of the
lightest production and gaming notebooks
on the market due to its magnesium
lightweight chassis and 15.6 inch 144
hertz IPS monitor the mag 15 weighs in
at just 4 pounds while the 94 watt hour
battery provides hours of use in a
single charge to see the full spec list
of the mag 15 from electronics and to
see their complete lineup of laptops and
notebooks click the sponsor link in the
description below so Intel's new
graphics card is known as the X EDG one
big X little e DG one one of EVGA is mad
because they have a DG series basically
on the surface the XC DG one is nothing
more than an AI GPU that you would find
on like a 99 100k or any desktop
processor a mainstream processor from
Intel that has a graphics chip in it
stripped out put onto its own board that
now interfaces with the CPU and the
motherboard through PCIe and doesn't
have a power connector and calling it
discrete in terms of performance they
are boasting a 100% improvement in
performance over the current IGP
offerings from Intel now I don't know
what exactly that's gonna mean for
gamers because the problem is CES is one
of those shows that traditionally is not
really known for giving you performance
metrics it's not really known for giving
you all the details
it's a hype show it's one of the reasons
why we didn't even go this year is that
just after going for eight years I
wanted another year off we took one year
off several years back and I just did
not want to go this year so I decided to
kind of experience the show from a
viewer perspective and that's kind of
giving me the confidence to say that CES
truly is nothing but a hype
it's nothing but getting some of the
very basic information out there of
something that's coming later this year
maybe even two years from now because he
got to show something
AMD really disrupted Intel when it came
to CPUs and getting back some of that
market share in fact we did a video
talking about that you guys can
hopefully find a link down below apply
for you to put it there but whatever I
guess we talked about the disruption
that AMD cost to Intel which put Intel
on its heels in having something to
respond with specifically for high
performance desktop and mainstream
desktops which is why 10th gen which is
not even fully rolled out yet is now
being it's already being obsoleted by
the discussions of 11th Jim which took
place at CES so Intel clearly is moving
faster than I think it can even bring
products to market but that's besides
the point
Intel has had a mission now for nearly a
decade to stick it to Nvidia there was
kind of a business transaction that was
attempted and didn't work out back in
like 2011 and Intel really sort of has
had its cross hairs from Nvidia a
problem is Nvidia is a huge beast when
it comes to money manufacturing backing
and technology that they've that they've
designed and implemented and pioneered
on their own Intel has kind of just sort
of stuck to what it's known for a long
time in fact it doesn't know GPUs Intel
hasn't even had a discrete GPU for
nearly 20 years which is why they went
on a very interesting headhunting
mission and poached Raja Kaduri from AMD
and Tom a peterson from Nvidia now tom
is actually an engineer and he is a he's
a micro architecture engineer knows
everything there is to know about GPUs
obviously it's why he was very
high-ranking and in video so our team
already makes the whole discussion
regarding non-compete and working with
another company like that very
interesting but whatever that's politics
we're not gonna get into that in fact
Tom's pet project and things like he's
always been interested in was SLI but
not with Tom being gone is why SLI is
pretty much dead with Nvidia which means
that you know now he's gonna be bringing
in all of his knowledge to Intel so
that's a very high-end high ranking
piece of your chess set now sitting at
Intel on the flip side Roger Kaduri was
known for the failure of the HBM stuff
that took place all the way up to rating
on seven leading to his
sabbatical and then departure from AMD
now working in Intel so I feel like you
have one extremely successful not saying
Roger is not successful but really
successful person within Nvidia and one
that left a poor legacy with AMD now
both are an Intel so I'm really curious
as to how that one's gonna play out but
the talent is clearly there but J if the
I GPU sucks so bad why is Intel basing a
discrete graphics card off of the same
architecture even at a hundred percent
improvement because 100 percent
improvement over mediocre is probably
still mediocre depends on how far
mediocre it is IGP is on Intel are
literally as bad as it gets it might be
it well I believe I have two theories as
to why and this is the fun part of my
video where i theorize and where i
believe companies are going with this I
rarely do these videos and when I do I'm
usually pretty accurate so I feel
confident in some of my reasoning behind
why Intel's doing this one servers
workstations work I'm not talking about
like you've got a small business with 15
computers I'm talking about your your
fill what's a big company Microsoft your
Microsoft with 50,000 workstations out
there floating around doing programming
that don't have crazy graph graphical
graphical gret GPU needs and so even if
you went out and spent 50 bucks on the
cheapest AMD or Intel most an Intel or
Nvidia offering like the GT 710 it's a
waste of money because you don't need
any of the high frame buffer amount of
RAM that's on there you don't need the
fast Ram because I GPU accesses system
memory which is much lower than V RAM
and it's one of those things where it's
just a waste of money but if you're
Intel you're looking at that going ok
our Zeon's our server grade stuff our X
platform which a lot of companies have
built workstations out of X 299 X 99
CPUs because they're a really cheap way
to get xeon level performance if you
don't need ECC memory support that's a
whole different video but what it means
is that if you're running those cpus
there is no I GP from Intel on there so
all that money is being spent on another
graphics card company like AMD or Nvidia
well I feel like Intel wants to keep
that money in-house they want to offer a
single point of support because
manufacturers support when you have that
many systems deployed he is huge
it keeps a single point of contact for
support for the very market dominating
presence at Intel is when it comes to
workstations and servers to be able to
have a single brand across the entire
build so that's one theory there it
gives them a competitive compassion it
gives them competition with AMD and
NVIDIA when it comes to that particular
use case when I talked about graphics
we're now talking about video editing
we're not talking about CAD we're
talking about word processing we're
talking about sequel servers we're
talking about you know programmers that
are that are doing you know c-sharp or
whatever and don't need a high end GPU
to handle all that they need big CPUs
with big amounts of memory my other
theory is that this card is not even
close to what we may potentially see in
the market it's probably nothing more
than the very basic architecture that
future DG Series graphics card is going
to be based upon to give you day one
support when they're ready to finally
deploy a retail solution this is nothing
more than a super basic way to allow
developers to understand the
architecture so that they can kind of
code for it so it offers OS companies
like Microsoft or Game Developers even
because obviously they're gonna need to
make a gaming card an option to start
being able to prepare for these launches
when they come out rather than just
being surprised like everyone else or
giving very little lead time to have
support because you're now gonna have
three different very drastically
different architectures in terms of
hardware that now will need to be
supported for gaming you guys have
always heard plays best on AMD plays
best on NVIDIA that's because of
subroutines and developers were like
manufacturers like Nvidia and AMD will
send out an engineer to go and help
these game developers develop for a game
they're dumping money in so of course
the best experience will be on Nvidia
because if Nvidia card used this routine
if AMD use this routine yes it takes
place now you're gonna have three those
so that's just a way to make sure that
you can even play your games or even get
an image out of your graphics card on
particular software so I don't think the
discreet graphics card that we're seeing
is what we're gonna actually be seeing
when the retail card comes to market so
this leads me into the last part of my
video is it worth waiting for my answer
is unless you're shopping for a graphics
card the next three to
five years no it's not because although
you may have brought in some of the
really top industry talent when it comes
to GPU development you can't be 30 odd
years behind Nvidia and suddenly think
your first card is gonna come out and be
competitive you we also have no idea
what their target demographic is they've
said it should support 1080p gaming what
does that mean
1080p no settings turned on 1080p high
1080p high refresh rate I mean what we
don't know that and if we have to go
based upon the IGP that they have now
shown us that the discreet card is based
upon without even a power connector
tells me it's not gonna compete with
anything above potentially a GTX 1060 no
I didn't say 60 60 1060 I don't expect
it to even come close to that in fact if
I had to make a guest in gaming
performance based on what we're seeing
today on the hundred percent improvement
over theoretical IGP that's out today I
would say it might compete with an RX
460 maybe so I'm not expecting any great
performance to come out of that I'm
expecting a first-generation graphics
card to come out to potentially be maybe
around the $200 price point that might
give you like I said 1060 performance
but again that's gonna be one of those
things we just have to wait and see so
my recommendation to you guys seeing
this information is don't get excited
don't wait just I mean the stuff that's
out now is plenty good and unless you
for some reason hate both AMD and NVIDIA
well you're kind of screwed anyway then
you got to spend your money somewhere
and Intel I don't think it's gonna be
the savior we're expecting yet they
clearly have the money they clearly have
the Rd and they are a manufacturer mogul
so there's no doubt they're gonna be
able to compete in time so at the end of
the day what do we know about the XE DG
one really nothing we really don't know
again CES is a hype show we'll probably
learn more at Computex and I still think
the card we're seeing today is nothing
more than ultra basic show no cards
prior to playing your hand to tip off
AMD and NVIDIA and what's coming just
enough to get developers ready for the
arc
sure because it'll scale up from there
if you understand the architecture you
could scale it pretty easily but if you
just have to guess then who knows so I
don't think the card that we saw at CES
is anything indicative of what's
actually gonna be coming to market my
best guess is you're not going to see
anything truly ready to compete until
the end of this year maybe even CES or
Computex next year 2021 alright guys
thanks for watching of course if
anything changes or we get any more
information that's not leaks but is
actually concrete from Intel themselves
then we'll update you guys on what we
know because obviously buying decisions
and information is what we kind of try
and do around here and either I don't
want to sue you guys the wrong way
saying IB it'll be years before we see
anything and then suddenly they've got a
20 atti killer coming up with six months
which isn't gonna happen so anyway guys
thanks for watching and as always we'll
see you next